# final-project-aditi-isabella

final-project-aditi-isabella created by GitHub Classroom

Billboard Hot 100 (https://www.billboard.com/charts/hot-100?rank=1 ) is the music industry standard record chart in the US for songs. The rankings are based on sales, radio play, and streaming in the US. Here you can see the top 100 songs in the US for the week. The list is updated every Tuesday. We can web scrape the website and gather various information like the song title, artist’s name, what position the song was in last week, peak position, and how many weeks it has been on the chart.  Once all the data is gathered, we will clean it and apply EDA. We will see if there is a relationship with the data gathered and a trend can be formed. Also which are the most popular artists and songs. We will also look at Apple’s Top 100 Global lists (https://music.apple.com/us/playlist/top-100-global/pl.d25f5d1181894928af76c85c967f8f31 ). Their list is based on how many times the songs are being streamed worldwide. The website lists the name of the song, artist’s name, album, and song length. We will also web scrape the data and clean it in a similar fashion. Then we will compare Billboard and Apple’s list and see the difference in popularity of charts in the US vs the world. Apple Music has an additional data point of the length of the song and we will see if there is any correlation there too. For the ML part of this project, we want to do something surrounding the prediction of where a certain song would be next week based on how many weeks it has been on the list or even how long it has been in the same position. Some other ideas for the ML part are predicting hypothetical positions for new songs based on the artist and how their previous songs have performed.
